hello I'm race Metro another coach and
so and I'd like to share my jigsaw
puzzle quilt with you
it was all the fun working out the
placements for this jigsaw puzzle quilt
it's a very very simple quilt to make no
triangles again I've used three and a
half inch squares of everything although
occasionally like a cross here I have
used a nine and a half inch by three and
a half inch rectangle but you can't just
stick to squares if you prefer now I've
used three colors within the jix or red
yellow and blue and I've used a gray for
the border and that also comes in
occasionally here just in between the
jigsaw pieces as the background the
basic idea of the of each piece is an
eight shape in one color just that
section of it there if you look across
there and that will have two individual
squares of a different color which will
match in with the next one
now the HS are rotated so that here I've
got an H running up and down that way
and here the HS running horizontally
that way then the next one is vertically
again and that's the way the the shapes
will fit into each other like in a
jigsaw puzzle the knack obviously is
which of these colors to have when you
make up this 9-patch unit here and the
only way that I found to do it was to
actually mark up the whole thing and
then work out which colors I wanted like
if I needed a yellow and a red there
whereas for another blue I needed to say
two yellows there but it's once you've
got the pattern it's very simple to put
together
it measures forty six inches square and
I've used half a yard of all the colors
that's the three in the middle plus the
border as well and they all need half a
yard this is the basic shape of a piece
from a jigsaw puzzle and I've used three
and a half inch squares here that is a
nine and a half inch by three and a half
inch rectangle and then these are all
three and a half inch squares now we
need to get these into a square to be
able to sew them together as blocks so
in fact if we take off the ones from
either side those will belong to the
blocks that are put on either side
and now these two bits here are the
crucial ones because those will be the
colors of the other of the adjoining
piece so that supposing that was yellow
then I would have the rest of a yellow
block down here the block itself when
this is completed as a nine patch can be
put into the quilt in both ways so it
could be rotated like that and that's
how you get them to join up you have one
that's that way and the one next to it
will be that way and then you can get
them to join up across the row so this
is the basic block now I've got that H
in the blue still but I've filled in now
with a gray in that top space and in a
red in this bottom space now I can sew
these together across the row and then
sew the rows to each other I've made
sixteen blocks now and as you can see
all of them have an H shape in the main
color and then if I show you here on
this one have an H shape in the main
color and then two other colors there
and these of course are the ones that
determine how your jigsaw looks so of
these 16 blocks then I've got six of
them are blue HS and of those there are
three which have a gray and a red square
in them then there are two which have a
yellow and a red square and just the one
was two yellow squares of the yellow
I've made five blocks and I've got three
of these with a red and a blue square in
them and one with a blue and a gray and
one with a red and a grey from the red
HS I've made five as well and first I've
got two here with grey and yellow
squares in them and one with yellow blue
one was to blue and one with a grain of
blue now I can start to put these all
together in rows to make up the quilt
here you see the layout for the jigsaw
puzzle quilt I've put the blocks in four
rows of four now if I start at the top
of the first row I've got
the H going up and down there and here
I've rotated it so that the H goes that
way then the H goes up right and then it
goes horizontally so that's the system
across the whole lot the H on the one on
the second row is horizontal and then
next to it vertical and now each time
the alternate squares which are within
the H have to blend in with the squares
on either side of them I'm using gray
for the outside and then I'm going to
make the border of gray as well and so
when there's an odd gap like here which
is not a new block then I'm putting gray
in there and then really they just have
to fit into each other you can follow
across the colorings I've used but
there's no point me trying to list them
all like that if I just turn back again
you can see them so that you can put
them together for yourself and now I'm
going to serve them together across each
row and then serve the rows to each
other finally for the border I've used
the same gray that I'd put in as
asparagus squares within the quilt I'm
using three and a half inch strips and
you'll need two lengths of 40 and a half
inches to go across top and bottom and
two lengths of 46 and a half inches to
go down the sides
I'm riseth if you like any more ideas
for cutting and sewing do visit my
website www.levitt.com